---
layout: post
title: 5. Taunt
abbrlink: 82a5a1d49a9a48bab0b5ef0ba9e9233c
tags:
  - osint
categories:
  - Labs
  - TryHackMe
  - 1. Easy
  - Sakura Room
date: 1723301007958
updated: 1723302224166
---

## 5. Taunt

### Background

Just as we thought, the cybercriminal is fully aware that we are gathering information about them after their attack. They were even so brazen as to message the OSINT Dojo on Twitter and taunt us for our efforts. The Twitter account which they used appears to use a different username than what we were previously tracking, maybe there is some additional information we can locate to get an idea of where they are heading to next?

We've taken a screenshot of the message sent to us by the attacker, you can view it in your browser [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OsintDojo/public/main/taunt.png).

### Instructions

Although many users share their username across different platforms, it isn't uncommon for users to also have alternative accounts that they keep entirely separate, such as for investigations, trolling, or just as a way to separate their personal and public lives. These alternative accounts might contain information not seen in their other accounts, and should also be investigated thoroughly. In order to answer the following questions, you will need to view the screenshot of the message sent by the attacker to the OSINT Dojo on Twitter and use it to locate additional information on the attacker's Twitter account. You will then need to follow the leads from the Twitter account to the Dark Web and other platforms in order to discover additional information.

***

## Q & A

1. What is the attacker's current Twitter handle?
   *SakuraLoverAiko*

2. What is the URL for the location where the attacker saved their WiFi  SSIDs and passwords?
   **Hint**: The Dark Web site for this answer may go up and down for hours at a time. If the website has been down for multiple days, or if you do not feel comfortable searching the Dark Web, you can view this screenshot to help complete the tasks in this section: <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OsintDojo/public/main/deeppaste.png> (Don't forget the http\://)
   *`http://deepv2w7p33xa4pwxzwi2ps4j62gfxpyp44ezjbmpttxz3owlsp4ljid.onion`*

3. What is the BSSID for the attacker's Home WiFi?
   *84:af:ec:34:fc:f8*

> Search the Home WiFi SSID on Wigle
