---
layout: post
title: TryHackMe/Easy/Slingshot
abbrlink: 995ae8a21200463e91e59e78b2550d4e
tags:
  - blue team
  - elastic stack
categories:
  - Labs
  - TryHackMe
  - 1. Easy
  - Slingshot
date: 1701959356561
updated: 1701959387581
---

<https://tryhackme.com/room/slingshot>

Slingway Inc., a leading toy company, has recently noticed suspicious activity on its e-commerce web server and potential modifications to its database. To investigate the suspicious activity, they've hired you as a SOC Analyst to look into the web server logs and uncover any instances of malicious activity.

To aid in your investigation, you've received an Elastic Stack instance containing logs from the suspected attack. Below, you'll find credentials to access the Kibana dashboard. Slingway's IT staff mentioned that the suspicious activity started on **July 26, 2023**.

By investigating and answering the questions below, we can create a timeline of events to lead the incident response activity. This will also allow us to present concise and confident findings that answer questions such as:

- What vulnerabilities did the attacker exploit on the web server?
- What user accounts were compromised?
- What data was exfiltrated from the server?

***

## Q & A

1. What was the attacker's IP?
   *10.0.2.15*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address` and look at the chart for highest request from IP

2. What was the first scanner that the attacker ran against the web server?
   *Nmap Scripting Engine*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15`, sort the by oldest date first and expand the second entry

3. What was the User Agent of the directory enumeration tool that the attacker used on the web server?
   *Mozilla/5.0 (Gobuster)*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15`, sort the by oldest date first and go to around entry #63, after the Nmap scans and check the `request.headers.User-Agent` field

4. In total, how many requested resources on the web server did the attacker fail to find?
   *1867*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and response.status:404`

5. What is the flag under the interesting directory the attacker found?
   *a76637b62ea99acda12f5859313f539a*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and response.status:200 and message:"*flag*"` and check the `http.url` field

6. What login page did the attacker discover using the directory enumeration tool?
   */admin-login.php*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and response.status:200 and http.url:*login*` and check the `http.url` field

7. What was the user agent of the brute-force tool that the attacker used on the admin panel?
   *Mozilla/4.0 (Hydra)*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and response.status:200 and http.url:*login*` and check the `request.headers.User-Agent` field

8. What username:password combination did the attacker use to gain access to the admin page?
   *admin:thx1138*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and response.status:200 and http.url:*login*` and check the `request.headers.Authorization` field then decode from Base64

9. What flag was included in the file that the attacker uploaded from the admin directory?
   *THM{ecb012e53a58818cbd17a924769ec447}*
   > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and http.url:*upload.php*`, check the log for `/admin/upload.php?action=upload` and expand the `request.body` field

10. What was the first command the attacker ran on the web shell?
    *whoami*
    > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and http.url:/uploads/*` sort by oldest and check the `http.url` field after `?cmd=`

11. What file location on the web server did the attacker extract database credentials from using **Local File Inclusion**?
    */etc/phpmyadmin/config-db.php*
    > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and http.url:/admin/*` and check the `http.url` field

12. What **directory** did the attacker use to access the database manager?
    */phpmyadmin*

13. What was the name of the database that the attacker **exported**?
    *customer\_credit\_cards*
    > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and message:*export* and response.status:200` and check the `http.url` field

14. What flag does the attacker **insert** into the database?
    *c6aa3215a7d519eeb40a660f3b76e64c*
    > Search `transaction.remote_address:10.0.2.15 and message:*insert* and response.status:200` then look for `http.url /phpmyadmin/lint.php` and check the `request.body` field
